# @bentley/imodeljs-native-platform-api

<p style="text-align: center;">
<i><mark>
<b>The native platform and its API are for the private use of imodeljs-backend only.</b>
</i></mark>
</p>


The iModelJs native library for node contains native code that is projected into JavaScript and is loaded by nodejs or electron. In fact, there are many native platform packages, one for each combination of node version and target platform that is supported. For example, @bentley/imodeljs-n_8-win32-x64 is the version of the native platform that can be used on a Windows desktop machine running 64-bit node v8.x.x. In addition, some apps may build custom versions of the native platform. This "api" package stands for them all. It has an install script to install the appropriate native platform for the platform.

# iModelJsNodeAddon

The native platform is not in git. The code for the native platform is in Mercuirial and is built by BentleyBuild. This package itself is generated by the iModelJsNodeAddon::MakePackages BentleyBuild part.

The generated native packages are published by PRG using BentleyBuild.

The *declarations* for the native platform are defined in imodeljs-core/core/backend, which is where the native platform is consumed.

When you write native platform code, you define JS classes and methods using N-API in the iModelJsNodeAddon directory (in hg). You must *also* declare those classes and methods in the imodeljs-native-platform-api.d.ts file in imodeljs-core/code/backend (in git). Yes, you must define the API twice -- once in native code and again in the d.ts file -- there is nothing to make this automatic or to check consistency -- you must do this manually.

Rolling a new version of the native platform code is a two-step process:
1. *Change the native platform* -- Change the native code and update package_version.txt in iModelNodeAddon.
2. *Adopt the native platform* -- Change the imodeljs-native-platform-api.d.ts file in imodeljs-core/core/backend and change TypeScript code as necessary to react to API changes.

These steps are described in more detail in the sections below.

# Changing and Publishing the Native Platform Packages

## 1. Build and Test

You can build the native platform like this:

`bb -s"iModelJsNodeAddon;BuildAll" b`

To force a rebuild of individual parts, do this:

`bb -s"iModelJsNodeAddon;BuildAll" re DgnPlatformDLL iModelJsNodeAddonLib* MakePackages`

***See below for testing. You should do this before updating package_version.txt and before requesting a PRG build.***

## 2. Update package_version.txt

Before requesting a PRG build, you must update the version number of the native platform package(s).

The package version number for the *implementation* of the native platform is stored in one place: the file called iModelJsNodeAddon/package_version.txt (in hg). BentleyBuild parts in iModelJsNodeAddon read the version number from this file and inject it into the native platform binaries and into the generated native platform package.json files. You must update the version number in this file when you change the native platform. Specifically:

Increment the *first digit* of the version if you remove or modify the signature of any existing class or method, or if you otherwise change the contract of an existing method.

Increment the *second digit* of the version if you add new classes, methods, or properties to the native platform API.

Increment the *third digit* if you merely fix a bug or otherwise change the implementation of the native platform in a way that does not affect the API or the contract of any method.

If you change only the documentation content in the d.ts or README files, then increment the third digit of the package version.

FYI The native platform package version number is also burned into the native code. This allows imodeljs-backend to do its runtime version-compatibility check. If you want to test with a new version number, you would re-build like this:

``` cmd
bb -s "iModelJsNodeAddon;BuildAll" re iModelJsNodeAddonLib* MakePackages -c
bb -s "iModelJsNodeAddon;BuildAll" re iModelJsNodeAddonLib* MakePackages
```

## 3. Publish

Request a PRG build of the native platform packages. Specify the new version number in your request.

# Testing Native Platform Changes and Corresponding Backend Changes

In imodeljs-core/core/backend, update imodeljs-native-platform-api.d.ts to reflect the changes made to the API implemeted by native code.

To test changes to the native code before publishing, install your local build of the native platform. Run the `installNativePlatform` script in the imodeljs-core directory. There is one for each supported platform, including Windows (.bat), Linux, and MacOS.

Update .ts files in imodeljs-core/core/backend as necessary to react to changes in the native platform API.

Run TypeScript tests.

# Adopting a New Version of the Native Platform packages

The native platform version number appears in *two places* in imodeljs-core/core/backend: In `package.json` and in `imodeljs-native-platform-api.d.ts`. To move to a new version of the native platform, you must update both places to use the new version number.

Then, rush install and then rush build.

Make sure tests are still passing.

Push.

# APPENDIX: How to Move to a New Version of Node

The native platform is still specific to a major.minor version of nodejs. (That will change after we move to node v9 next year.) If you need to support a newer version of node, do the following:

### Get new node-gyp package, if necessary

node-gyp contains the node header files and the .lib for the desired version. You do not always have to update node-gyp when you update node.

If you haven't already, install node-gyp:
`npm install -g node-gyp`

Tell node-gyp to install the version of nodejs that you want.
`node-gyp install <nodevernum>`

That will install the headers and libs to the .node-gyp directory in your %homedrive%%homepath% directory. Copy the files from the relevant subdirectory to thirdparty\node-addon-api\node-gyp

### Update thirdparty/nodejs/node-gyp, if necessary

If you updated node-gyp from npm, then you must update our saved copy of it, as follows:

1. Copy that whole directory to `%SrcRoot%thirdparty\node-addon-api\node-gyp`, creating a new subdirectory with the same name as the origin.
2. Rename the new subdirectory by prefixing it with "N_" and replacing dots with underscores.

For example, suppose you want to update to 8.9.2 for node addons. You would copy the `%homedrive%%homepath%.node-gyp\8.9.2` to `%SrcRoot%thirdparty\node-addon-api\node-gyp`. That would create a subdirectory called `8.9.2`. You would then rename the copy to `n_8_2`.

### Change Partfiles

Finally, change the PartFiles that refer to the version of the node API that is used to build the native platform.

thirdparty\node-addon-api\node-addon-api.PartFile.xml
iModelJsNodeAddon\iModelJsNodeAddon.PartFile.xml